Title: Classifying Cats and Dogs Images Using Covolution Neural Networks

Carter Mullenix - A310 Fall 2023

Source: Python Machine Learning Workbook for Beginners Project 6

Project Desciption: This project uses Convolution Neural Networks to classify images into the category of
dog or cat. The Convolution Neural Network uses the combination of pixels to determine whether images
are in a category or not. The overall concept of Convolution Operation constists of an image and a feature 
detector where the detector moves from left to right of the image and multiplies the values of the detector by 
the values in the image. The values given by Convolution Operation are linear so to introduce unlinear values we need
to use the ReLu Operation. The ReLu operation is used to replace any negative values with 0 and leave all the postive values
untouched. The next operation which is pooling takes into account any distortion or disorientation that the image may have.
Pooling takes the feature map and the pooling filter and moves the filter over the feature map apply the one of the pooling 
operations (max, min, and average). The final operation is Flattening and Fully Connected Layer in which the pooling feature maps
are flattened into a one-dimensional vector and used as an imput to the neural network layer.

Libraries and Dataset: tensorflow keras library, google.colab library, numpy library, Dogs vs Cats Dataset from Kaggle

Data Preprocessing: The original dataset contains 25000 images but the amount used in the project is 10000.
8000 of the images are for training(4000 dogs, 4000 cats) and the reamining 2000 are used for testing. The dataset
contains no null values that need to be removed in the data cleaning process.

Model used in Project: The model used in the project is a Convolution Neural Network which is made with the Tensor Keras Sequential() class.

End Goal: The program that I write will be able to tell the difference between images of cats and dogs
and tell the end user which it is. I am learning how to use a Convolution Nerual Networks to classify images in other
project that I may do.
